{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17160\viewh12020\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Exercise:\'a010.
\f1\b0 \cf2  Find the printer models having the highest price. Result set: model, price.\

\f0\b \cf2 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf2 SELECT model, price\
FROM Printer\
WHERE price = (SELECT MAX(price)\
FROM printer) ;\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Exercise:\'a011.
\f1\b0 \cf5  \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Find out the average speed of PCs.\

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer :
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0  SELECT AVG(speed) \
FROM PC ; \
\
\

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Exercise:\'a012.
\f1\b0 \cf5  \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Find out the average speed of the laptops priced over $1000.\

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer :  
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT AVG(speed)\
FROM Laptop\
WHERE price >1000 ;\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf5 Exercise:\'a013. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Find out the average speed of the PCs produced by maker A.\

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT AVG(PC.speed)\
FROM PC, Product\
WHERE PC.model=Product.model AND Product.maker='A' ;
\f0\b \cf5 \
\
\
Exercise:\'a014. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 For the ships in the Ships table that have at least 10 guns, get the class, name, and country.\

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT Ships.class, Ships.name, Classes.country\
FROM ships LEFT OUTER JOIN classes ON Ships.class = Classes.class\
WHERE Classes.numGuns >= 10 ;
\f0\b \cf5 \
\
\
Exercise:\'a015. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Get hard drive capacities that are identical for two or more PCs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Result set: hd.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT hd \
FROM PC\
GROUP BY hd\
HAVING COUNT(model) >= 2 ;
\f0\b \cf5 \
\
\
Exercise:\'a016. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Get pairs of PC models with identical speeds and the same RAM capacity. Each resulting pair should be displayed only once, i.e. (i, j) but not (j, i).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Result set: model with the bigger number, model with the smaller number, speed, and RAM.
\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT DISTINCT a.model, b.model, a.speed, a.ram \
FROM pc a, pc b \
WHERE a.speed = b.speed AND a.ram = b.ram and a.model > b.model ;
\f0\b \cf5 \
\
\
Exercise:\'a017. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Get the laptop models that have a speed smaller than the speed of any PC.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Result set: type, model, speed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT DISTINCT p.type,p.model,l.speed\
FROM laptop l\
JOIN product p ON l.model=p.model\
WHERE l.speed<(select min(speed) from pc) ;
\f0\b \cf5 \
\
\
Exercise:\'a018. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Find the makers of the cheapest color printers.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Result set: maker, price.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT DISTINCT maker, price \
FROM printer, product\
WHERE printer.model = product.model AND color = 'y' AND price = (\
SELECT MIN (price) \
FROM printer \
WHERE color = 'y') ;
\f0\b \cf5 \
\
\
Exercise:\'a019. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 For each maker having models in the Laptop table, find out the average screen size of the laptops he produces.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Result set: maker, average screen size.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT product.maker, AVG(screen)\
FROM laptop LEFT OUTER JOIN product ON product.model = laptop.model\
GROUP BY product.maker ;\

\f0\b \cf5 \
\
Exercise:\'a020. 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Find the makers producing at least three distinct models of PCs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Result set: maker, number of PC models.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Answer : 
\f1\b0 \cf5 SELECT maker, COUNT(model)\
FROM product\
WHERE type = 'pc'\
GROUP BY product.maker\
HAVING COUNT (DISTINCT model) >= 3 ;
\f0\b \cf6 \
\
\
}